Storm of Istra - Core Rules.md, before:

Storm of Istra
==============

*A fantasy skirmish wargame in an apocalyptic tradecity*

**Designer**: David Malmström

**Invaluable ideas**: David Israelsson, Zac Coste

**Inspiration**: Mordheim, Frostgrave, Infinity and 13th Age Roleplaying Game.

**Play testers**:

-   \[Your name here\]

License
=======

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2016 David Malmström

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Table of Contents
=================

Rules
=====

Stat line
---------

Power, Finesse and Will are Core Stats.

**Power**: Used for attacking and defending in melee, defending against ranged attacks.

**Finesse**: Used for ranged attacks and modifies movement.

**Will**: Used for casting spells and morale.

**Health**: A models health shows how much damage it can take before it collapses, is killed or incapacitated. 10-20

**Armour**: Armour indicates how much damage the model reduces incoming damage with.

Skills
------

Difficulties when performing a skill check are easy 6+, normal 11+, hard 16+. To roll a skill check simply roll 1D20 and get equal or higher than the difficulty. If no difficulty is written use the normal difficulty of 11+.

### Power

Climb: Easy: 1", Normal: 2", Hard: 3"

### Finesse

Spot hidden

### Will

Leadership

Setup the battle
----------------

To setup a game of Storm of Istra, you need at least two players for Player versus Player (PVP) and at least one player and one Game Master for Player versus Environment (PVE).

Each participant rolls initiative to see who goes first. A simple opposed roll using 1D20 is used, the high roller begins, ties are rerolled. If there are more than two players they can in roll off to see who goes next or just use the standard board game rule, the next player to the left.

### Building the battlefield

TODO

### Deploying your mercenary company

The player that won the Initiative gets to deploy one of his models, then the next player deploys one model, and so on until all models have been placed on the board.

The Turn
--------

Games are divided into turns, each player will have a chance to move all of their figures on a turn.

### Initiative

The player that won the roll get to activate one of his models and then nominate the next model to be activated. They can choose to nominate their own, another players or a neutral monsters model. The owner of the nominated model takes that models turn and then nominates the next model, and so forth until all models have been nominated once. The last nominated model’s owner gets to nominate the first model for the next turn.

### Activation

When a model is activated it has to take its round, it can't hold its action or ready them for later.

A model has one Movement action and one Standard action, they can take them in any order.

Valid Movement actions: Move, Pick up item and Switch weapon.

Valid Standard actions: Melee, Shoot, Cast a spell, Sprint.

Sometimes a model may be eligible for a Reaction, a special type of Action, spending her actions on another models turn.

Movement actions
----------------

If a model wants to move take 4 and adds it Finesse stat, it may move that many inches.

### Move

#### Obstructions or rough terrain

If a model wants to move through rough terrain such as rubble or scale a building it may do so at 1" at the cost of 2".

#### Climbing

A model can climb 3” during any part of its movement, climbing still cost movement. Climbing in obstructions or rough terrain still applies. Enemies always have the *First strike* special rule against models that have climbed this turn.

#### Forced engaged in combat

If a model moves within 1" of an enemy, they are considered Engaged in combat and are moved into base-contact.

#### Disengage from combat

To run away from a combat, the model must succeed at a Disengage-roll. Roll 1T20 and if the result is 11+ the model may Disengage from the combat and move. The model gains -1 to the Disengage roll for each enemy it's engaged with beyond the first.

#### Moved by a spell

If a model is moved by a spell such as Teleport they are not considered having moved. The rules for Forced engaged in combat still applies.

#### Moving of the board

If a model moves of the board it may not return.

#### Falling

A model may jump down from 3" without sustaining any injuries. If the model falls more than 3" it suffers damage equal to the number of inches fall multiplied by 1.5 (round down), armour does not apply to fall damage.

### Pick up item

You may spend your Movement action to pick up an item.

### Switch weapon

You may spend your Movement action to switch to another weapon that you have equipped.

Standard actions
----------------

### Sprint

If a model wants to sprint it must have already moved this turn, it may then move half of its movement.

### <span id="obstructions-or-rough-terrain" class="anchor"><span id="melee-combat" class="anchor"></span></span>Melee

A model may attack another model that it's in base-contact with.

Both figures roll 1D20 and add their Power stat, plus any other modifiers that are relevant. The figure with the highest total may inflict damage on the opponent.

Damage is determined by subtracting the losers armour from the total of the winner. If it's zero or negative, then no damage is caused.

If damage was caused reduce the loser's health stat by that much and lower one Core Stat by 1.

If both sides totals are the same then both are considered winners and may inflict damage.

### Shoot

A model may attack another model with its ranged weapon if it's both in range and in line-of-sight.

The attacker rolls 1D20 and add their Finesse stat, plus any other modifiers that are relevant. The defender rolls 1D20 and add their Power stat, plus any other modifiers that are relevant.

If the attacker's total is equal or higher than the defender's total, the attacker is the winner and may deal damage by subtracting the loser's armour stat from its total. If it's zero or negative, then no damage is caused.

If damage was caused reduce the loser's health stat by that much and lower one Core Stat by 1.

### Cast a spell

A model may cast a spell if they fulfil the spells requirements such as range, legal target, etc.

If the spell is an attack spell the caster rolls 1D20 and add their Will stat, plus any other modifiers that are relevant. The defender rolls 1D20 and add the Defence stat associated with that spell, plus any other modifiers that are relevant.

If it's another type of spell the caster rolls 1D20 and add their Will stat, plus any other modifiers that are relevant against the spells Target number.

If the caster's total is equal or higher than the defender's total, the caster is the winner and may apply the spell effect.

If damage was caused reduce the loser's health stat by that much and lower one Core Stat by 1.

If the caster loses he may suffer damage according to the spell failure table

#### Spell failure

| Amount By Which Casting Roll Failed | Damage Taken by Spellcaster |
|-------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| 1–4                                 | None                        |
| 5–9                                 | 1 Damage                    |
| 10–19                               | 2 Damage                    |
| 20+                                 | 5 Damage                    |

Range
-----

### High above

Shooting from higher up adds to the range of Ranged weapons. Measure the height difference between the attacker and the defender and add it to the range of the attackers Ranged weapon.

For example, a bowwoman standing 3" above her target adds 3" to her bows maximum range.

Damage
------

### Health

If a models Health is reduced to zero, they are considered to be out of the game. Take the model away from the board and set it aside in a special area for models taken out of battle.

### Core Stat

If all of a models Core Stats are reduced to zero, they are considered to be out of the game. Take the model away from the board and set it aside in a special area for models taken out of the game.

When a model takes damage to Core Stats it's the stat that was rolled that first takes damage, if that Core Stat is already zero reduce the next Core Stat in line by 1.

> A model has \[1P, 2F, 1W\], it takes 2F damage, then it takes another 1F damage but now the models Finesse is already zero, so the damage goes to the next Core Stat in line, Will, it takes 1 damage to Will. The model now has Core Stats as follows \[1P, 0F, 0W\]. If it takes any damage to either Finesse or Will it will carry over to Power, reducing it down to zero and taking the model out of game.

Morale
------

If a model has 4 Health left she must start making Morale checks at the start of its activation. She rolls 1D20 and adds her Will stat plus any other relevant modifiers, against the target number 10 plus 1 for each Health lost.

If the company leader is within 6" of her she may use the leaders Will stat in place of her own.

If the roll is equal or higher than the target number she may remain in the battle as normal.

If the roll is lower than the target number she will flee using both her movement and Sprint action to get to the nearest table edge. She takes the safest way away from enemies.

Critical Hit
------------

When a model making an attack rolls a natural twenty (20), then they have scored a critical hit. It automatically wins that combat and may deal double damage (after armour reduction).

Critical Fumble
---------------

When a model making an attack rolls a natural one (1), then they have scored a critical fumble. It automatically loses that combat, reduces one Core Stat by 1 and its opponent may deal damage (Effective Core Stat loss is two, one for the fumble and one for the damage). If the model was shooting into a melee combat, reroll the attack against one of the models allies in that combat.

Advantage & Disadvantage
------------------------

A model may have advantage or disadvantage to her rolls.

When it has advantage roll two D20 and take the highest result.

When it has disadvantage roll two D20 and take the lowest result.

Each Advantage cancels out one Disadvantage.

A model can never get more than two dice to roll from either advantage or disadvantage.

### Advantage

#### Flanked

If a model has at least one ally fighting with him against one opponent, it gains advantage.

#### Shooting at a Large target

If a model wants to shoot at a Large target it gains advantage.

### Disadvantage

#### Shooting into melee

If a model wants to shoot into a melee combat it gains disadvantage. This also applies to ranged attack spells.

#### Cover

If a model shoots at an enemy that has cover it gains disadvantage.

End of the game
---------------

The game ends when the scenarios win or lose-condition is met.

A spellcaster may choose a number of spells equal to his level.

Spellcasting
------------

### School of Fire

#### Fireball

Once per battle

Target: 3" radius

Attack: Brilliance vs Finesse

### School of Frost

#### Ray of Frost

Once per turn

Target: 1 model

Attack: Brilliance vs Finesse

Mercenary companies
===================

Heroes
------

Each hero costs 80 gp to hire to your company.

### Starting heroes

A newly recruited hero starts out at level 1.

Choose a name, race and class for the newly recruited hero.

The table shows the starting value and max value of each stat for that race.

| Race     | P   | F   | W   | H     | A   |
|----------|-----|-----|-----|-------|-----|
| Human    | 1/5 | 1/5 | 1/5 | 10/20 | 0   |
| Elf      | 1/4 | 1/7 | 1/5 | 10/20 | 0   |
| Dwarf    | 1/7 | 1/5 | 1/5 | 10/20 | 0   |
| Halfling | 1/5 | 1/6 | 1/5 | 10/20 | 0   |
| Undead   | 1/5 | 1/3 | 1/4 | 10/20 | 0   |
| Beast    | 1/8 | 1/5 | 1/4 | 10/20 | 0   |
| Demon    | 1/6 | 1/6 | 1/6 | 10/20 | 0   |

Races
-----

### Humans

#### Pirates

#### Sisters of Sigmar

#### Witch Hunters

#### Bretonnia Knights

#### Amazons

#### Pit Fighters

#### Mercenaries

### Elves

#### Wood elves

#### Steppe elves

#### Dark elves

#### Shadow Warriors

### Dwarves

Dwarf Treasure Hunters

### Halflings

### Undead

### Beasts

#### Beastmen Raiders

### Ratfolk

### Goblins

### Orcs

### Demons

#### Carnival of Chaos

#### Cult of the Possessed

Classes
-------

### Fighter

Uses mostly physical attacks and boasts heavy armours to protect themselves with, goes into a frothing rage wielding large axes or uses the power of protection from armour with magic from their religion.

Unlocks Fighter, Barbarian and Paladin talents.

### Magic user

Either empowering their magic spells and breath weapons, using calculated and versatile spell or the holy magic of one of the religions found in Melor. Or might turn to the songs of power using a lute or fiddle.

Unlocks Sorcerer, Wizard, Priest and Bard talents.

### Expert

With cloak and poison dagger, or a well-placed arrow the expert exceeds in killing targets fast and mercilessly.

Unlocks Rogue and Ranger talents.

Assembling your company of heroes
---------------------------------

Each new company starts with 500 gold pieces to buy heroes and equipment with.

Give the company a name and motto.

Your heroes buy, steal or repurpose a place in the city of Istra into a base of operations. A place where your heroes live, train and drink.

It's important that you name your company hall.

Weapon descriptions
-------------------

### Melee

#### Unarmed

Unarmed strikes have a -2 damage modifier and -2 to the attack roll.

#### Dagger

Daggers apply a -2 to attack rolls but -2 to an opponent's armour when determining damage.

#### One-handed weapon

These weapons have no modifiers.

#### Two-handed weapon

Two-handed weapons have +2 damage modifier and the *First strike* special rule against Spears.

### Spear

Spears can be either a one-handed or a two-handed weapon. If you use a shield with a spear it counts as a one-handed weapon. If not, it counts as a two-handed weapon. Spears have the *First strike* special rule.

### Shooting

All ranged weapons have Advantage against targets within 6”.

#### Bow

Bows may be loaded and fired as a single action.

#### Crossbow

Crossbows takes either a Move action or a Standard action to load. Crossbows have a +2 damage modifier.

#### Black powder

Black powder weapons give you a -2 to ranged attacks but gives you +6 to damage. Black powder weapons have Disadvantage against all targets 12” or further away. Black powder weapons take 2 turns to reload.

Armour descriptions
-------------------

### Light

Light armour gives the model +5 Armour.

### Heavy

Heavy armour gives the model +10 Armour but -2 Movement.

### Shield

Shields give the model +1 to Armour, Arrow block and Shield friend.

Equipment list
--------------

### Weapons

| Name       | Cost (gp) | Mordheim cost (gc) |
|------------|-----------|--------------------|
| Dagger     | 2         | 1                  |
| One-handed | 10        | 10                 |
| Two-handed | 12        | 15                 |
| Spear      | 5         | ?                  |
| Bow        | 10        | 10                 |
| Crossbow   | 10        | 25                 |
| Longbow    | 15        | 15                 |
| Rifle      | 50        | 30                 |
| Pistol     | 60        | 35                 |

### Armour

| Name    | Cost (gp) | Mordheim cost (gc) |
|---------|-----------|--------------------|
| Light   | 15        | 20                 |
| Heavy   | 45        | 50                 |
| Shield  | 5         | 5                  |
| Buckler | 5         | 5                  |
| Helmet  | -         | 5                  |

Special rules
-------------

### Arrow block

Reaction: When fired upon you may spend your action to gain advantage to defence rolls against ranged attacks.

### Shield friend

Reaction: When fired upon you may shield a friendly model within 2" rolling defence instead of it by spending your action.

### First strike

Reaction: If you have not used your Standard action, you may spend your Standard action to make a Melee attack against your attacker before she attacks you.

If both models have First strike they cancel each other out.

Campaigns
=========

Advancing your heroes
---------------------

After each battle your surviving heroes gains 1 XP, it takes 4 XP to reach the next level.

Your heroes gain +1 to one Core Stat each time they gain a level.

Your heroes gain +1 talents for each level they have.

Advancing your company hall
---------------------------

Your company hall can be upgraded with gold.

### Clear the Area

Remove terrain when another mercenary company invades your base.

### Walls

Gives you wall from where to defend your base.

Talents
-------

### Fighter talents

#### Fighter

**Toughness**: You gain +4 Health

**Cleave**: If you kill an opponent, you may make another attack against another opponent that you are engaged in combat with.

**Power attack**: Twice per battle, before you roll attack you may declare that you use Power attack. If you win the combat roll you may deal 1D6 extra damage.

#### Barbarian

**Rage**: You gain advantage to melee attack rolls.

**Whirlwind**: Once per battle: Make a melee attack against all enemies within 2".

**Relentless**: If the attacker does damage she must roll 12+ on the attack roll or it only deals half damage.

#### Paladin

**Smite Douchebag**: Once per battle, before you roll attack you may declare that you use Smite Douchebag. You may deal 1D3 extra damage even if you lose the combat roll. You may deal 1D6 extra damage if you win the combat.

**Bastion**: You gain +1 Armour and can once per battle invoke the special rules Shield friend even if you don't have a shield.

**Paladin's challenge**: If you damage a model you may choose to challenge that model. You both take a -4 attack penalty to all other models.

### Magic user talents

#### Sorcerer

#### Wizard

#### Priest

#### Bard

### Expert talents

#### Rogue

#### Ranger

Commit message:

Added the Charged shot special rule, rebalanced Black powder weapon, removed Longbow

Storm of Istra - Core Rules.md, after:

Storm of Istra
==============

*A fantasy skirmish wargame in an apocalyptic tradecity*

**Designer**: David Malmström

**Invaluable ideas**: David Israelsson, Zac Coste

**Inspiration**: Mordheim, Frostgrave, Infinity and 13th Age Roleplaying Game.

**Play testers**:

-   \[Your name here\]

License
=======

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2016 David Malmström

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Table of Contents
=================

Rules
=====

Stat line
---------

Power, Finesse and Will are Core Stats.

**Power**: Used for attacking and defending in melee, defending against ranged attacks.

**Finesse**: Used for ranged attacks and modifies movement.

**Will**: Used for casting spells and morale.

**Health**: A models health shows how much damage it can take before it collapses, is killed or incapacitated. 10-20

**Armour**: Armour indicates how much damage the model reduces incoming damage with.

Skills
------

Difficulties when performing a skill check are easy 6+, normal 11+, hard 16+. To roll a skill check simply roll 1D20 and get equal or higher than the difficulty. If no difficulty is written use the normal difficulty of 11+.

### Power

Climb: Easy: 1", Normal: 2", Hard: 3"

### Finesse

Spot hidden

### Will

Leadership

Setup the battle
----------------

To setup a game of Storm of Istra, you need at least two players for Player versus Player (PVP) and at least one player and one Game Master for Player versus Environment (PVE).

Each participant rolls initiative to see who goes first. A simple opposed roll using 1D20 is used, the high roller begins, ties are rerolled. If there are more than two players they can in roll off to see who goes next or just use the standard board game rule, the next player to the left.

### Building the battlefield

TODO

### Deploying your mercenary company

The player that won the Initiative gets to deploy one of his models, then the next player deploys one model, and so on until all models have been placed on the board.

The Turn
--------

Games are divided into turns, each player will have a chance to move all of their figures on a turn.

### Initiative

The player that won the roll get to activate one of his models and then nominate the next model to be activated. They can choose to nominate their own, another players or a neutral monsters model. The owner of the nominated model takes that models turn and then nominates the next model, and so forth until all models have been nominated once. The last nominated model’s owner gets to nominate the first model for the next turn.

### Activation

When a model is activated it has to take its round, it can't hold its action or ready them for later.

A model has one Movement action and one Standard action, they can take them in any order.

Valid Movement actions: Move, Pick up item and Switch weapon.

Valid Standard actions: Melee, Shoot, Cast a spell, Sprint.

Sometimes a model may be eligible for a Reaction, a special type of Action, spending her actions on another models turn.

Movement actions
----------------

If a model wants to move take 4 and adds it Finesse stat, it may move that many inches.

### Move

#### Obstructions or rough terrain

If a model wants to move through rough terrain such as rubble or scale a building it may do so at 1" at the cost of 2".

#### Climbing

A model can climb 3” during any part of its movement, climbing still cost movement. Climbing in obstructions or rough terrain still applies. Enemies always have the *First strike* special rule against models that have climbed this turn.

#### Forced engaged in combat

If a model moves within 1" of an enemy, they are considered Engaged in combat and are moved into base-contact.

#### Disengage from combat

To run away from a combat, the model must succeed at a Disengage-roll. Roll 1T20 and if the result is 11+ the model may Disengage from the combat and move. The model gains -1 to the Disengage roll for each enemy it's engaged with beyond the first.

#### Moved by a spell

If a model is moved by a spell such as Teleport they are not considered having moved. The rules for Forced engaged in combat still applies.

#### Moving of the board

If a model moves of the board it may not return.

#### Falling

A model may jump down from 3" without sustaining any injuries. If the model falls more than 3" it suffers damage equal to the number of inches fall multiplied by 1.5 (round down), armour does not apply to fall damage.

### Pick up item

You may spend your Movement action to pick up an item.

### Switch weapon

You may spend your Movement action to switch to another weapon that you have equipped.

Standard actions
----------------

### Sprint

If a model wants to sprint it must have already moved this turn, it may then move half of its movement.

### <span id="obstructions-or-rough-terrain" class="anchor"><span id="melee-combat" class="anchor"></span></span>Melee

A model may attack another model that it's in base-contact with.

Both figures roll 1D20 and add their Power stat, plus any other modifiers that are relevant. The figure with the highest total may inflict damage on the opponent.

Damage is determined by subtracting the losers armour from the total of the winner. If it's zero or negative, then no damage is caused.

If damage was caused reduce the loser's health stat by that much and lower one Core Stat by 1.

If both sides totals are the same then both are considered winners and may inflict damage.

### Shoot

A model may attack another model with its ranged weapon if it's both in range and in line-of-sight.

The attacker rolls 1D20 and add their Finesse stat, plus any other modifiers that are relevant. The defender rolls 1D20 and add their Power stat, plus any other modifiers that are relevant.

If the attacker's total is equal or higher than the defender's total, the attacker is the winner and may deal damage by subtracting the loser's armour stat from its total. If it's zero or negative, then no damage is caused.

If damage was caused reduce the loser's health stat by that much and lower one Core Stat by 1.

### Cast a spell

A model may cast a spell if they fulfil the spells requirements such as range, legal target, etc.

If the spell is an attack spell the caster rolls 1D20 and add their Will stat, plus any other modifiers that are relevant. The defender rolls 1D20 and add the Defence stat associated with that spell, plus any other modifiers that are relevant.

If it's another type of spell the caster rolls 1D20 and add their Will stat, plus any other modifiers that are relevant against the spells Target number.

If the caster's total is equal or higher than the defender's total, the caster is the winner and may apply the spell effect.

If damage was caused reduce the loser's health stat by that much and lower one Core Stat by 1.

If the caster loses he may suffer damage according to the spell failure table

#### Spell failure

| Amount By Which Casting Roll Failed | Damage Taken by Spellcaster |
|-------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| 1–4                                 | None                        |
| 5–9                                 | 1 Damage                    |
| 10–19                               | 2 Damage                    |
| 20+                                 | 5 Damage                    |

Range
-----

### High above

Shooting from higher up adds to the range of Ranged weapons. Measure the height difference between the attacker and the defender and add it to the range of the attackers Ranged weapon.

For example, an archer is standing 3" above her target adds 3" to her bows maximum range.

Damage
------

### Health

If a models Health is reduced to zero, they are considered to be out of the game. Take the model away from the board and set it aside in a special area for models taken out of battle.

### Core Stat

If all of a models Core Stats are reduced to zero, they are considered to be out of the game. Take the model away from the board and set it aside in a special area for models taken out of the game.

When a model takes damage to Core Stats it's the stat that was rolled that first takes damage, if that Core Stat is already zero reduce the next Core Stat in line by 1.

> A model has \[1P, 2F, 1W\], it takes 2F damage, then it takes another 1F damage but now the models Finesse is already zero, so the damage goes to the next Core Stat in line, Will, it takes 1 damage to Will. The model now has Core Stats as follows \[1P, 0F, 0W\]. If it takes any damage to either Finesse or Will it will carry over to Power, reducing it down to zero and taking the model out of game.

Morale
------

If a model has 4 Health left she must start making Morale checks at the start of its activation. She rolls 1D20 and adds her Will stat plus any other relevant modifiers, against the target number 10 plus 1 for each Health lost.

If the company leader is within 6" of her she may use the leaders Will stat in place of her own.

If the roll is equal or higher than the target number she may remain in the battle as normal.

If the roll is lower than the target number she will flee using both her movement and Sprint action to get to the nearest table edge. She takes the safest way away from enemies.

Critical Hit
------------

When a model making an attack rolls a natural twenty (20), then they have scored a critical hit. It automatically wins that combat and may deal double damage (after armour reduction).

Critical Fumble
---------------

When a model making an attack rolls a natural one (1), then they have scored a critical fumble. It automatically loses that combat, reduces one Core Stat by 1 and its opponent may deal damage (Effective Core Stat loss is two, one for the fumble and one for the damage). If the model was shooting into a melee combat, reroll the attack against one of the models allies in that combat.

Advantage & Disadvantage
------------------------

A model may have advantage or disadvantage to her rolls.

When it has advantage roll two D20 and take the highest result.

When it has disadvantage roll two D20 and take the lowest result.

Each Advantage cancels out one Disadvantage.

A model can never get more than two dice to roll from either advantage or disadvantage.

### Advantage

#### Flanked

If a model has at least one ally fighting with him against one opponent, it gains advantage.

#### Shooting at a Large target

If a model wants to shoot at a Large target it gains advantage.

### Disadvantage

#### Shooting into melee

If a model wants to shoot into a melee combat it gains disadvantage. This also applies to ranged attack spells.

#### Cover

If a model shoots at an enemy that has cover it gains disadvantage.

End of the game
---------------

The game ends when the scenarios win or lose-condition is met.

A spellcaster may choose a number of spells equal to his level.

Spellcasting
------------

### School of Fire

#### Fireball

Once per battle

Target: 3" radius

Attack: Brilliance vs Finesse

### School of Frost

#### Ray of Frost

Once per turn

Target: 1 model

Attack: Brilliance vs Finesse

Mercenary companies
===================

Heroes
------

Each hero costs 80 gp to hire to your company.

### Starting heroes

A newly recruited hero starts out at level 1.

Choose a name, race and class for the newly recruited hero.

The table shows the starting value and max value of each stat for that race.

| Race     | P   | F   | W   | H     | A   |
|----------|-----|-----|-----|-------|-----|
| Human    | 1/5 | 1/5 | 1/5 | 10/20 | 0   |
| Elf      | 1/4 | 1/7 | 1/5 | 10/20 | 0   |
| Dwarf    | 1/7 | 1/5 | 1/5 | 10/20 | 0   |
| Halfling | 1/5 | 1/6 | 1/5 | 10/20 | 0   |
| Undead   | 1/5 | 1/3 | 1/4 | 10/20 | 0   |
| Beast    | 1/8 | 1/5 | 1/4 | 10/20 | 0   |
| Demon    | 1/6 | 1/6 | 1/6 | 10/20 | 0   |

Races
-----

### Humans

#### Pirates

#### Sisters of Sigmar

#### Witch Hunters

#### Bretonnia Knights

#### Amazons

#### Pit Fighters

#### Mercenaries

### Elves

#### Wood elves

#### Steppe elves

#### Dark elves

#### Shadow Warriors

### Dwarves

Dwarf Treasure Hunters

### Halflings

### Undead

### Beasts

#### Beastmen Raiders

### Ratfolk

### Goblins

### Orcs

### Demons

#### Carnival of Chaos

#### Cult of the Possessed

Classes
-------

### Fighter

Uses mostly physical attacks and boasts heavy armours to protect themselves with, goes into a frothing rage wielding large axes or uses the power of protection from armour with magic from their religion.

Unlocks Fighter, Barbarian and Paladin talents.

### Magic user

Either empowering their magic spells and breath weapons, using calculated and versatile spell or the holy magic of one of the religions found in Melor. Or might turn to the songs of power using a lute or fiddle.

Unlocks Sorcerer, Wizard, Priest and Bard talents.

### Expert

With cloak and poison dagger, or a well-placed arrow the expert exceeds in killing targets fast and mercilessly.

Unlocks Rogue and Ranger talents.

Assembling your company of heroes
---------------------------------

Each new company starts with 500 gold pieces to buy heroes and equipment with.

Give the company a name and motto.

Your heroes buy, steal or repurpose a place in the city of Istra into a base of operations. A place where your heroes live, train and drink.

It's important that you name your company hall.

Weapon descriptions
-------------------

### Melee

#### Unarmed

Unarmed strikes have a -2 damage modifier and -2 to the attack roll.

#### Dagger

Daggers apply a -2 to attack rolls but -2 to an opponent's armour when determining damage.

#### One-handed weapon

These weapons have no modifiers.

#### Two-handed weapon

Two-handed weapons have +2 damage modifier and the *First strike* special rule against Spears.

### Spear

Spears can be either a one-handed or a two-handed weapon. If you use a shield with a spear it counts as a one-handed weapon. If not, it counts as a two-handed weapon. Spears have the *First strike* special rule.

### Shooting

All ranged weapons have Advantage against targets within 6” and the *Charged shot* special rule.

#### Bow

Bows may be loaded and fired as a single action.

#### Crossbow

Crossbows takes either a Move action or a Standard action to load. Crossbows have a +2 damage modifier.

#### Black powder

Black powder weapons give the defender Disadvantage to the defence roll and deal +6 damage. Black powder weapons have Disadvantage against all targets 12” or further away. Black powder weapons take 2 turns to reload.

Armour descriptions
-------------------

### Light

Light armour gives the model +5 Armour.

### Heavy

Heavy armour gives the model +10 Armour but -2 Movement.

### Shield

Shields give the model +1 to Armour, Arrow block and Shield friend.

Equipment list
--------------

### Weapons

| Name        | Cost (gp) | Mordheim cost (gc) |
|-------------|-----------|--------------------|
| Dagger      | 2         | 1                  |
| One-handed  | 10        | 10                 |
| Two-handed  | 12        | 15                 |
| Spear       | 5         | ?                  |
| Bow/Longbow | 10        | 10                 |
| Crossbow    | 10        | 25                 |
| Rifle       | 50        | 30                 |
| Pistol      | 60        | 35                 |

### Armour

| Name    | Cost (gp) | Mordheim cost (gc) |
|---------|-----------|--------------------|
| Light   | 15        | 20                 |
| Heavy   | 45        | 50                 |
| Shield  | 5         | 5                  |
| Buckler | 5         | 5                  |
| Helmet  | -         | 5                  |

Special rules
-------------

### Charged shot

Reaction: If you have a loaded ranged weapon and a model moves to Engage you in combat, you may as a reaction spend your Move action and Standard action to Shoot the attacker before he makes his attack. Your Shooting attack may be taken at any range you wish. If you do Shoot the attacker you cannot Switch weapon and you gain Disadvantage on your defence roll.

### Arrow block

Reaction: When fired upon you may spend your action to gain advantage to defence rolls against ranged attacks.

### Shield friend

Reaction: When fired upon you may shield a friendly model within 2" rolling defence instead of it by spending your action.

### First strike

Reaction: If you have not used your Standard action, you may spend your Standard action to make a Melee attack against your attacker before she attacks you.

If both models have First strike they cancel each other out.

Campaigns
=========

Advancing your heroes
---------------------

After each battle your surviving heroes gains 1 XP, it takes 4 XP to reach the next level.

Your heroes gain +1 to one Core Stat each time they gain a level.

Your heroes gain +1 talents for each level they have.

Advancing your company hall
---------------------------

Your company hall can be upgraded with gold.

### Clear the Area

Remove terrain when another mercenary company invades your base.

### Walls

Gives you wall from where to defend your base.

Talents
-------

### Fighter talents

#### Fighter

**Toughness**: You gain +4 Health

**Cleave**: If you kill an opponent, you may make another attack against another opponent that you are engaged in combat with.

**Power attack**: Twice per battle, before you roll attack you may declare that you use Power attack. If you win the combat roll you may deal 1D6 extra damage.

#### Barbarian

**Rage**: You gain advantage to melee attack rolls.

**Whirlwind**: Once per battle: Make a melee attack against all enemies within 2".

**Relentless**: If the attacker does damage she must roll 12+ on the attack roll or it only deals half damage.

#### Paladin

**Smite Douchebag**: Once per battle, before you roll attack you may declare that you use Smite Douchebag. You may deal 1D3 extra damage even if you lose the combat roll. You may deal 1D6 extra damage if you win the combat.

**Bastion**: You gain +1 Armour and can once per battle invoke the special rules Shield friend even if you don't have a shield.

**Paladin's challenge**: If you damage a model you may choose to challenge that model. You both take a -4 attack penalty to all other models.

### Magic user talents

#### Sorcerer

#### Wizard

#### Priest

#### Bard

### Expert talents

#### Rogue

#### Ranger
